# 安装

[TOC]

## 系统需求

### 主机操作系统

Any Windows, Linux or Macintosh operating system that can run a supported Java version will work. Other operating systems may work, but they are not tested by Sonatype.

The most widely used operating system for Nexus Repository Manager (NXRM)  is Linux and therefore customers should consider it the best tested  platform.

任何可以运行受支持的Java版本的Windows、Linux或Macintosh操作系统都可以工作。其他操作系统可能可以工作，但Sonatype未对其进行测试。

Nexus Repository Manager（NXRM）使用最广泛的操作系统是Linux，因此客户应将其视为最佳测试平台。

## Dedicated Operating System User Account

Unless you are just testing the repository manager or running it only for  personal use, a dedicated operating system user account is strongly  recommended to run each unique process on a given host.

 

The NXRM process user is typically named 'nexus' and must be able to create a valid shell.

Important

 

As a security precaution, do not run Nexus Repository Manager 3 as the `root` user.

## Adequate File Handle Limits

NXRM3 will most likely want to consume more file handles than the per user  default value allowed by your Linux or OSX operating system.

Running out of file descriptors can be disastrous and will most probably lead  to data loss. Make sure to increase the limit on the number of open  files descriptors for the user running Nexus Repository  Manager permanently to 65,536 or higher prior to starting.

See https://issues.sonatype.org/browse/NEXUS-12041 for additional background.

### Linux  * *

On most Linux systems, persistent limits can be set for a particular user by editing the `/etc/security/limits.conf` file. To set the maximum number of open files for both soft and hard limits for the `nexus` user to 65536, add the following line to the `/etc/security/limits.conf` file, where "nexus" should be replaced with the user ID that is being used to run the repository manager:

```
nexus - nofile 65536
```

This change will only take effect the next time the `nexus` process user opens a new session. Which essentially means that you will need to restart NXRM.

On Ubuntu systems there is a caveat: Ubuntu ignores the `/etc/security/limits.conf` file for processes started by `init.d`.

So if NXRM is started using init.d there, edit `/etc/pam.d/common-session` and uncomment the following line ( remove the hash # and space at the beginning of the line):

```
# session    required   pam_limits.so
```

For more information refer to your specific operating system documentation.

If you're using `systemd` to launch the server the above won't work. Instead, modify the configuration file to add a `LimitNOFILE` line:

```
[Unit]
Description=nexus service
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=forking
LimitNOFILE=65536
ExecStart=/opt/nexus/bin/nexus start
ExecStop=/opt/nexus/bin/nexus stop
User=nexus
Restart=on-abort

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

### Mac OSX

The method to modify the file descriptor limits on OSX has changed a few  times over the years. Please note your OS X version and follow the  appropriate instructions.

**For OS X Yosemite (10.10) and newer
**

1. Create the file: `/Library/LaunchDaemons/limit.maxfiles.plist`

   ```
   <!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC "-//Apple//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN" "http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd">
     <plist version="1.0">
       <dict>
         <key>Label</key>
           <string>limit.maxfiles</string>
         <key>ProgramArguments</key>
           <array>
             <string>launchctl</string>
             <string>limit</string>
             <string>maxfiles</string>
             <string>65536</string>
             <string>65536</string>
           </array>
         <key>RunAtLoad</key>
           <true/>
         <key>ServiceIPC</key>
           <false/>
       </dict>
     </plist>
   ```

   If this file already exists, then ensure the value is **at least** 65536 as shown.

   The file must be owned by `root:wheel` and have permissions `-rw-r--r--`. 

   ```
   sudo chmod 644 /Library/LaunchDaemons/limit.maxfiles.plist
   sudo chown root:wheel /Library/LaunchDaemons/limit.maxfiles.plist
   ```

   **Reboot the operating system to activate the change.

   **

2. Add a new line to `        $install-dir/bin/nexus.vmoptions      `  containing:

   ```
   -XX:-MaxFDLimit
   ```

   **Restart NXRM to activate the change.

   **

**For OS X Lion (10.7) up to OS X Mavericks (10.9)
**

1. Create and edit the system file `/etc/launchd.conf` using this command:

   ```
   sudo sh -c 'echo "limit maxfiles 65536 65536" >> /etc/launchd.conf'
   ```

   **Reboot the operating system to activate the change.

   **

2. Add a new line to `$install-dir/bin/nexus.vmoptions` containing:

   ```
   -XX:-MaxFDLimit
   ```

   **Restart NXRM to activate the change.**

### Windows

Windows operating systems do not need file handle limit adjustments.

### Docker

The Nexus Repository Docker images are configured with adequate file  limits. Some container platforms such as Amazon ECS will override the  default limits. On these platforms it is recommended that the Docker  image be run with the following flags:

```
--ulimit nofile=65536:65536
```

##   Java

Nexus Repository Manager requires a Java 8 Runtime Environment (JRE). The  distributions for OSX and Windows include suitable runtime environments  for the specific operating system. The distributions for Unix do not  include the runtime environment. If you prefer to use an external  runtime or use a Unix operating system, you can choose to install the  full JDK or the JRE only. You can confirm the installed Java version  with the `java -version` command, for example:

```
$ java -version
openjdk version "1.8.0_191"
OpenJDK Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_191-b12)
OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.191-b12, mixed mode)
```

When multiple JDK or JRE versions are installed, you need to ensure the  correct version is configured by running the above command as the  operating system user that is used to run the repository manager.

In the event you have a non-standard location you need to update the configuration to specify a specific JDK or JRE  installation path. To set the path for a specific Java location open  the `bin/nexus` script and locate the line `INSTALL4J_JAVA_HOME_OVERRIDE`. Remove the hash and specify the location of your JDK/JRE:

```
INSTALL4J_JAVA_HOME_OVERRIDE=/usr/lib/jvm/openjdk-8
```

The startup script verifies the runtime environment by checking for the existence of the nested `bin/java `command as well as major and minor version of the runtime to be the required `1.8`. If the configured runtime is not suitable, it will proceed with a best  effort to locate a suitable runtime configured on the path or via the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable. If successful, it will start up the repository manager with  this JVM. This allows you to have a dedicated runtime environment for  the repository manager installed that is not on the path and not used by other installed applications. Further, you can separate upgrades of the Java runtime used by the repository manager from upgrades of the  runtime used by other applications.

## CPU

Performance is primarily bounded by IO (disk and network) rather than CPU.  Available CPUs will impact longer running operations and also the [thread allocation algorithms of the web container](https://support.sonatype.com/hc/en-us/articles/360000744687-Understanding-Eclipse-Jetty-9-4-8-Thread-Allocation).

**Minimum CPUs:** 4

**Recommended CPUs:** 8+

## Memory

### Configurable Memory Types

Visit the [Configuring the Runtime Enviroment](https://help.sonatype.com/repomanager3/installation-and-upgrades/configuring-the-runtime-environment#ConfiguringtheRuntimeEnvironment-ConfiguringtheRuntimeEnvironment-ConfiguringMemory) page to learn how to change the default memory settings.

#### JVM Heap Memory

Heap memory stores runtime application objects. A min ( -Xms ) and max  ( -Xmx ) value must be specified and the values should be identical.

Increasing the heap memory larger than recommendations or setting the min and max values to be different is **not recommended**. This will create performance issues causing the operating system to thrash needlessly.

#### JVM Direct Memory

 

Only required for OrientDB.

Direct memory is allocated outside of and distinct from heap memory. A max value must be configured if using OrientDB.

#### Host Physical Memory

The total memory allocated to the entire operating system or virtual hardware, commonly referred to as RAM.

### Memory Requirements

The requirements assume there are no other significant memory hungry processes running on the same host.

|                     | JVM Heap | JVM Direct                               | Host Physical/RAM |
| ------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| Minimum ( default ) | 2703MB   | 2703MB                                   | 8GB               |
| Maximum             | 4GB      | (host physical/RAM * 2/3) - JVM max heap | *no limit*        |

### General Memory Guidelines

- minimum physical/RAM memory on the host 8GB
- minimum heap ( -Xms ) must equal set maximum heap ( -Xmx )
- minimum heap size 2703MB
- maximum heap size <= 4GB
- minimum direct memory ( -XX:MaxDirectMemorySize ) size 2703MB
- minimum unallocated host physical/RAM memory should be no less than 1/3 of total physical RAM to allow for virtual memory swap
- max heap + max direct memory <= host physical/RAM * 2/3

### Instance Memory Sizing Profiles

These profiles help gauge the typical physical memory requirements needed for a dedicated server host running repository manager. *Due to the inherent complexities of use cases, one size does not fit all and this should only be interpreted as a guideline.*

| Profile Use Case                                             | Physical/RAM Memory |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------- |
| small, personalrepositories < 20 total blobstore size < 20GB single repository format type | 8GB minimum         |
| medium, teamrepositories < 50 total blobstore size < 200GB a few repository formats | 16GB                |
| large, enterpriserepositories > 50 total blobstore size > 200GB diverse set of repository formats | 32GB+               |

### Example Maximum Memory Configurations 

 

`-XX:MaxDirectMemorySize` is for **OrientDB only**

| Physical/RAM Memory | Example Maximum Memory Configuration                      |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| 8GB                 | `-Xms2703M -Xmx2703M -XX:MaxDirectMemorySize=2703M `      |
| 12GB                | `-Xms4G -Xmx4G -XX:MaxDirectMemorySize=4014M `            |
| 16GB                | `-Xms4G -Xmx4G -XX:MaxDirectMemorySize=6717M `            |
| 32GB                | `-Xms6G -Xmx6G -XX:MaxDirectMemorySize=15530M `           |
| 64GB                | `-Xms8G -Xmx8G-XX:+UseG1GC-XX:MaxDirectMemorySize=35158M` |

### Advanced Database Memory Tuning

Refer to another article which outlines [additional memory tuning procedures](https://support.sonatype.com/hc/en-us/articles/115007093447).

## Database Limitations

 

We highly recommend that you have your Nexus Repository 3 instance use an external PostgreSQL database. See our [documentation on configuring Nexus Repository Pro for an external PostgreSQL database](https://help.sonatype.com/repomanager3/installation-and-upgrades/configuring-nexus-repository-pro-for-h2-or-postgresql#ConfiguringNexusRepositoryProforH2orPostgreSQL-ConfiguringforExternalPostgreSQL) or on [migrating an existing Nexus Repository 3 instance to a PostgreSQL database](https://help.sonatype.com/repomanager3/installation-and-upgrades/migrating-to-a-new-database).

 

We strongly recommend against running Nexus Repository 3 on an embedded database within container orchestration environments such as Kubernetes. Doing so can lead to severe data corruption.

Ongoing performance analysis has shown that OrientDB and H2 databases are  unsuitable for use beyond the limits below. If you need to exceed the  below limits, you should migrate to a [PostgreSQL database](https://help.sonatype.com/repomanager3/planning-your-implementation/database-options).

### H2

For H2, container-based deployments are not supported. H2 supported  workload limitation is 20K requests per day and 100K components;  workload beyond these limitations is not supported.

### OrientDB

For OrientDB, we also recommend not exceeding 20K requests per day and 100K components.

## Temporary Directory

The [temporary directory](https://help.sonatype.com/repomanager3/installation-and-upgrades/configuring-the-runtime-environment#ConfiguringtheRuntimeEnvironment-ConfiguringtheTemporaryDirectory) at `    $data-dir/tmp  ` must not be mounted with `noexec` or repository manager startup will fail with `java.lang.UnsatisfiedLinkError`   message of  `failed to map segment from shared object: Operation not permitted` .

## Disk Space

Application Directory - The size of this directory varies slightly each release. It currently around 330 MB. It is normal to have multiple application  directories installed on the same host over time as repository manager  is upgraded.

Data Directory - On first start, repository manager  creates the base files needed to operate. The bulk of disk space will be held by your deployed and proxied artifacts, as well as any search  indexes. This is highly installation specific, and will be dependent on  the repository formats used, the number of artifacts stored, the size of your teams and projects, etc.  It's best to plan for a lot though,  formats like Docker and Maven can use very large amounts of storage  (500Gb easily). When available disk space drops below 4GB the database will switch to read-only mode.

## File Systems

Nexus Repository stores multiple kinds of data, with two primary storage requirements:

1. **Embedded data** (H2, OrientDB, Elastic Search) requires very responsive, fast storage, ideally local disk
2. **Blob storage** (component binaries), which requires moderately responsive, high-capacity storage

File system selection should be made bearing both of these in mind.

| File System            |  Embedded data   |                         Blob Stores                          | Comment                                                      |
| ---------------------- | :--------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Local storage**      |  **Supported**   |                        **Supported**                         | Local storage is a good choice for both embedded data and binary storage. |
| **NFS v4**             | Not Recommended* |                        **Supported**                         | Most common protocol for network attached storage among Nexus Repository deployments. |
| **Amazon EBS**         |  **Supported**   |                        **Supported**                         | EBS is a viable choice for both embedded data and binary storage. |
| **Amazon EFS**         |   Unsupported    |                       **Supported\****                       | EFS isn't sufficiently responsive for embedded data, but is appropriate for binary storage. |
| **Amazon S3**          |       N/A        |                        **Supported**                         | S3 semantics aren't suitable for embedded data, but S3 is popular for binary storage. |
| **SMB, CIFS**          |   Unsupported    |                        **Supported**                         | Problems are common with SMB or CIFS-mounted devices for embedded data. |
| **Azure Blob Storage** |       N/A        |                        **Supported**                         | Available for blob storage from Nexus 3.30.0 Pro. For performance reasons, the  Azure blob store should be in the same Azure region as the Nexus Repo  installation. |
| **Azure Files**        |   Unsupported    |                        **Supported**                         | Issues with file handles have been observed when accessing embedded data over SMB. |
| **S3-Compatible**      |   Unsupported    | Some S3-compatible object stores do not support all the features required by Nexus Repository or have subtle compatibility issues with the AWS Java  SDK that NXRM uses. This includes providers such as Ceph S3. |                                                              |
| **NFS v3**             |   Unsupported    | Numerous customers have experienced inadequate performance with NFS v3. |                                                              |
| **GlusterFS**          |   Unsupported    |    Split-brain problems and slow performance are common.     |                                                              |
| **FUSE**               |   Unsupported    | FUSE based user-space filesystems are known to be unreliable for Nexus Repository. |                                                              |

** NFSv4.1 or higher can be used for the work directory in small lightly  loaded installations, but we have found that it does not provide  sufficient performance for anything larger. In general it should be  avoided for the work directory.*

*** EFS binary storage may not provide necessary throughput for heavy workloads in all configurations.*

### File System Optimization

We also have some [optimization suggestions to use at your discretion](https://support.sonatype.com/hc/en-us/articles/213465258-Optimizing-Nexus-Disk-IO-Performance). Also consider the `noatime` option for your Nexus Repository work directory mounts and limit the symbolic  links used as this will cause increased overhead whenever paths need to  be resolved to an absolute file path.

## Web Browser

Our general policy is to support the most recent modern browser version for your supported OS at time of NXRM release date.

| Vendor    | Browser           | Versions                                                     |
| --------- | ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Google    | Chrome            | latest at NXRM release                                       |
| Mozilla   | Firefox           | latest and  [ESR](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/organizations/)  at NXRM release |
| Apple     | Safari            | latest at NXRM release                                       |
| Microsoft | Edge              | latest at NXRM release                                       |
| Microsoft | Internet Explorer | No longer supported                                          |